#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard

\lang danish
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
vspace*{2cm} {
\backslash
centering 
\backslash
Huge 
\backslash
textbf{Social Data Science} 
\backslash

\backslash
 
\backslash
textbf{Summerschool 2020} 
\backslash

\backslash
[1cm]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

Group 10
\backslash

\backslash
[2.cm]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

Investigating the expansion of remote work in the Danish labour market 
\backslash

\backslash
[2.5cm]}
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
textbf{Total number of characters:  } 
\backslash

\backslash

\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

  
\backslash
newpage
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset toc
LatexCommand tableofcontents

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our project aims to investigate the expansion/development of remote work
 in the Danish labour market (possibly 2008-2020) using data joblistings
 from jobindex.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The first part of the project consists of a descriptive analysis of the
 trend in remote job postings both in absolute numbers but also relative
 to the total number of job postings.
 This is done merely to confirm (at least superficially) the trend that
 many media outlets and academics have foreseen whereby the option of working
 remotely is becoming increasingly available.
 This descriptive analysis will map the historic and current state of working
 remotely in Denmark and provide a stepping stone for the second part of
 the project, which aims to identify the scope of remote work in the future
 by forecasting the trend in remote job postings overall and within different
 industries - one could for example expect that jobs within the service
 and hospitality industry cannot be fulfilled remotely.
 The model is based on time series data and will be cross-validated using
 different training and testing data (regularization needed?).
 The prediction can help reveal the potential of remote work in the future.
 Challenges: From looking around in Job Index, it seems that remote jobs
 are a very small fraction of the total number of jobs advertised in Job
 Index which might make the estimation/validation of our model.
 However, this doesn’t make our model any less relevant/interest and if
 remote job listings do continue to increase in the future, its calibration
 can be improved.
 Moreover, even without a model, our data would still allow us to make an
 interesting descriptive analysis of the overall job market and how it has
 been impacted by COVID-19, for example by looking into which types of jobs/indu
stries/locations have seen the largest decreases in new postings compared
 to previous years, etc.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Theory
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Data
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We will obtain the data by scraping the job portal www.jobindex.dk for all
 current and archived job postings.
 We will then define some keywords (or expressions) such as “hjemmearbejde,
 hjemmekontor, arbejde hjemmefra, etc” that we expect job postings where
 working remotely is allowed (or encouraged) would contain.
 We can search for these expressions in our job data and classify jobs into
 remote/not remote.
 The labeling model will be checked by random sample controls.
 Our plan is to classify the job postings into job functions (preferable
 DISCO-08 codes), industries (categories on jobindex) and geographical areas.
 Job listings are interesting because they give us insight into the demand
 side of the labor market (the employer) and their perception on the possibility
 of employees working remotely, whereas many surveys usually focus on employees.
 Further, we can see if there is a pattern in the words/phrases otherwise
 used in “remote” job postings.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
# To obtain a more complete description, we scrape each of the links we
 are redirected to when you click # on a job posting in Job-Index.
 Using the text from these links, we can look for the remote keywords that
 we will later define.
 # We would also like to look at the most frequent words used in job postings
 and how they change across idustries and time.
 # However, the challenging part is that most of the time we are redirected
 to the website outside of Job-Index.
 Most of the # times it is the website of the company that has posted the
 job, other times we are redirected to a PDF document.
 # These websites and PDFs vary in the way they are constructed and it is
 difficult to define a function that # can scrape the text related to the
 job posting without also scraping unnecessary text like html codes or other
 information # that companies include in their website.
 Therefore, for this type of text analysis, we will use a small snippet
 of the job # posting which job index includes in their listing of job postings.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Ethical Considerations in data collection
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
How do we define the remote job postings
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Cross validating the way the filter works
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Descriptive Analysis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Forecasting
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Discussion Conclusion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
References
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
